I recently received a really good
question from someone who was watching
my content. They asked me, "Wade, how do
you memorize a speech? You always talk
about the best speakers don't use
notes." Well, what are the best
memorization techniques to actually
remember the speech? And I've talked a
lot on this channel about not building a
speech by writing it out word for word.
And to be honest, my previous answer
would have just been to practice a ton
until it's pretty familiar in your head.
But I did some YouTube research and I
came across an awesome concept which I
wanted to share because I think this can
really help you memorize your next
speech without using any notes at all.
The credit on this one goes to Mike
Mallowitz who is an author and I will
link to the specific video because it
was his idea, not mine. But I've tried
this and I thought since his video is 12
years old that I came across, perhaps I
could do an updated version to help all
of you who might come across this video.
So the idea is that when we use our
memories in high school and junior high,
we're taught to try to remember things
in a linear or chronological fashion.
But that's not the best way our brains
memorize. The best ways our brain
memorizes are by associating pictures or
visuals to a particular concept. And so
this idea from Mike has to do with using
your hand to memorize a speech. And no,
you're not writing all of the notes on
your hand. And the great news is your
hand will be with you when you give the
presentation.
But his idea is that you use each finger
to represent a visual that when you look
down at your hand, instantly you see
that visual and you remember the point
of your speech. Again, this method does
not work if you're planning on reading
out a word for word written speech. So,
you still want to go with the bullet
point approach, but this will help you
memorize those different chunks. And as
a test, I am going to share with you
points from one of my speeches that I
give on a regular basis, which I call
elevate your digital presence. And by
the end of this video, if you can
memorize all of the points of my speech,
I think that this proves this method is
pretty good. So, here's the quickest way
to memorize a speech using the fingers
on your hand. And each finger is going
to represent a different part of the
speech. So, in my speech that I give on
a regular basis called Elevate Your
Digital Presence, the first thing I talk
about is an MSN messenger conversation
with my mom. And it's kind of a funny
story and that is how I lead my speech
out. But if we think about any digital
conversation, instant messaging or text
messaging, a lot of people like to use
the thumbs up emoji. You'll ask, "Hey,
do you want to meet at 6:00 p.m.?" And
that's the full response, just that
thumbs up. So when you look at my hand,
I want you to think of the thumb being
MSN Messenger. Okay? And again, this is
the challenge to see if you can memorize
my full speech. So, the thumb is that
MSN Messenger. The next part of my
speech, I talk about an embarrassing
situation getting my passport photo
taken. And it's a long story, but
essentially, it's one of my most
embarrassing stories. And so, for this
finger, I want you to memorize
taking a photo with a camera, pressing
that shutter button. Okay. So, next off
in my presentation, I talk about the
power of interviewing other people and
how I think that this is really great
for content, but also to establish
yourself as an expert in your community.
So, for this one, don't worry, I won't
isolate this finger on its own because
that would be quite offensive to you.
But the longest finger is the middle
finger. And so I want you to imagine the
middle finger is a long microphone and
then you've got the the wind sock or the
top of the microphone at the top. So
interviewing somebody, that is what the
middle finger represents.
The next part of my speech that I give
on a regular basis, I talk about
artificial intelligence and how it's one
of the greatest productivity tools we
have access to. And for this one, I'm
going to flip over to this hand. And
it's a little gross. I apologize, but I
have sprained my finger one too many
times from playing volleyball. And so
it's it's sort of got like a wonky curve
to it. And if you remember in the early
days of MidJourney and some of these
other AI tools, when you would try to
get it to generate hands, they would be
deformed. There'd be too many fingers.
They would look disgusting. And so when
you look at this finger of mine, I'm
sorry that it's horrible to look at, but
I want you to think of AI or artificial
intelligence. And then the final point
of my story or of my speech, every
speech I do, I try to make it come full
circle. What does that mean? A full
circle speech is the first thing you
mention in the speech should be the very
last thing you mention as well. And this
ties everything up together. For
example, if you were leading a business
meeting and you started with a powerful
question like, "Are we the disruptors or
are we about to be disrupted?" Then
through the speech, you shared pertinent
information of how earnings were doing
and the current projects you're on. Then
a full circle ending would be coming
back to answer the question you asked in
the first place. So you could say based
on Q1 earnings, based on our current
projects and future projections, we
continue to be the industry disruptors.
And that is called full circle. And so
when you see the pinky finger, I want
you to think of a circle. Okay? So I'm
going to test you now. What did this
finger represent? What did this finger
represent? What did this finger
represent? How about this one? And how
about this one? If you were able to
answer those questions, you can think of
all the things. The thumbs up for MSN,
the shutter for the pointer finger, the
microphone for the middle finger, the
gross wonky AI finger, and the full
circle ending. You just memorized my
speech. Imagine what this can do for
your next speech. I hope this video on
memorizing a speech was helpful for you.
Again, credit goes to Mike Mallowitz who
was the one who put out this video that
I came across. It was from 12 years ago.
I will link to his video in the example
because he does an incredible job. I'm
simply sharing that information. So,
check that out. If this was helpful to
you, consider subscribing to my channel.
Turn on notifications. It's one of the
best things you can do to support me and
what I do. and then check out this video
that's popping up on your screen right
now because I talk about how to build a
speech in a way that you don't have to
rely on notes. Thank you very much and
I'll catch you on the next